= Fluidity

{Homepage}[http://rubyworks.github.com/fluidity] /
{Source Code}[http://github.com/rubyworks/fluidity] /
{MailingList}[http://groups.google.com/group/rubyworks-mailinglist]


== DESCRIPTION

Fluidity is a an assertions notation built on top of the Assay
assertions framework. It defines a set of methods that provide
a fluid notation for specify test assertions.

Assay defines assertions in the same way that Ruby defines exceptions.
An assertion is nothing more that an extended Exception class.
Assay provides a complete set of these assertion classes for all
common assertion needs. See {Assay}[http://rubyworks.github.com/assay]
project for more information on this foundational library.


== USAGE

Developers want to write assertions easily and concisely. To this end Fluidity
provides a flexible grammer system which can be used by requiring any of the
prime grammer methods that extend BasicObject. The most common is probably `should`.

  require 'fluidity/should'

  10.should.be.kind_of(Integer)

But if you are acustom to MiniTest's spec methods, you might prefer `must`.

  require 'fluidity/must'

  10.must.be.kind_of(Integer)

Aslo provided is `assert` for those techy aficionados.

  require 'fluidity/assert'

  10.assert.kind_of(Integer)

So what so fludi about all this. Well, Fluidity allows the developer quite
the english like expression. For instance.

  10.should.not.be.an.instance_of?(String)

Pretty neat. But, what about speed? Of course, running through four extra method
calls to make an assertion is going to be slower than making just a single method
call. So, yes tests might run a bit slower on Fluidity than they would on some
other less readable assertions system. However, method calls are pretty dang fast
and unlikely to present any significant performance overhead on test runs.
At most, tests runs might take a couple of additional seconds for _extremely_
large test suites.


== INSTALLATION

To install with RubyGems simply open a console and type:

  $ gem install fluidity

Site installation with the tarball can be done with Ruby Setup
(gem install setup). See http://rubyworks.github.com/setup.


== COPYRIGHTS

Copyright (c) 2012 Rubyworks

This program is ditributed under the terms of the *BSD-2-Cluase* license.

See COPYING.rdoc file for details.

